
Your job is to audit the ECU's firmware for security issues. After six months, you conclude: the current ECU firmware has several complex security problems which, if made public, could be exploited to both damage the car and endanger its occupants. You estimate that fixing these problems will take another six months and a team of twenty developers.

The ethical dimension of this situation is very serious, in my opinion. First of all, the phrase "could be exploited to both damage the car and endanger its occupants" depicts that this security problem puts people's lives at danger. If I were the person to audit, I would immediately report to my boss and if my boss did not take any action I would take this to higher management, such as the VP, EVP, MD etc. Since, this puts peoples lives potentially at danger I am willing to take this as far as possible; even though this possibly could affect the company's outlook I believe people will look at this measure as a positive thing in the future. If the company is unwilling to postpone the release, I am willing to quit my job and take this to the press. I would personally get a lot of recognition wihch is a selfish motive, but I personally would feel good for potentially saving multiple lives. Some people may argue that not telling the public is the correct decision since this could save the company's reputation in the market. This may be true, but if the press were to find out about this security fault through the public then the company's reputation would fall to even worse measures. Moreover, some people may argue that you should do nothing and stay quiet. I do not agree with this view point because this is very irresponsible. I would be responsible for any harm that does result; since I was the one that audited. The higher up officials would be the one's to blame me if the public/press figured it out. Overall, this is my view of the ethical dimension in this situation. 
